doc: Extend NFC Type 4 Tag documentation (#2218)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrfxlib: nfc/doc/type_4_tag.rst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Type 4 Tag must contain at least the NFC Data Exchange Format (NDEF) tag application.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - NDEF Length (NLEN)
```

Reviewer: Also this file needs to follow https://nrfconnectdocs.nordicsemi.com/ncs/latest/nrf/templates/library_template_README.html

You can start an Overview section here.
```suggestion
Overview
********

A Type 4 Tag must contain at least the NDEF tag application.
```

  The CC is a read-only metafile that contains the version of the implemented specification, communication parameters of the tag, and properties of all the other EF files that are present on a Type 4 Tag platform.

NDEF file
  The NDEF file (see :ref:`t4t_format`) contains the NDEF message.
  Depending on the file properties defined in the CC file, the message can be read or rewritten.

The Type 4 Tag library uses Application Protocol Data Units (APDUs) to communicate with polling NFC devices over the ISO-DEP (ISO14443-4A) protocol.

> As with the Type 2 Tag, the Type 4 Tag supports NFC-A listen mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the :ref:`type_2_tag`, the Type 4 Tag supports NFC-A listen mode.
```

In this mode, the tag waits for polling devices and does not actively initiate a connection.

> The Type 4 Tag library supports three emulation modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Available emulation modes
=========================

The Type 4 Tag library supports the following emulation modes:

.. list-table:: Emulation modes
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Mode
     - Payload function
     - Buffer content
     - Length argument
     - Key callback events
     - Typical use case
   * - Read-only NDEF tag
     - :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`
     - NDEF message
     - Encoded message size
     - :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_ON`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_OFF`, and :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_READ`
     - Static content, such as a URL or text, that readers cannot overwrite
   * - Read-write NDEF tag
     - :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set`
     - NDEF file (NLEN + message)
     - Buffer capacity
     - :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_ON`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_OFF`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_READ`, and :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED`
     - Tags that a smartphone can reprogram (for example, with NFC Tools)
   * - Raw ISO-DEP
     - Not used (skip payload setup)
     - Not applicable
     - Not applicable
     - :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_ON`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_OFF`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_DATA_IND`, and :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_DATA_TRANSMITTED`
     - Custom ISO-DEP protocols that do not use NDEF tag emulation
```

> See :ref:`t4t_mode_selection` for guidance on choosing a mode, then follow :ref:`t4t_configuring` to configure the tag data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See :ref:`t4t_mode_selection` for information about selecting an emulation mode.
```

.. _t4t_format:

NDEF file format

> ****************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NDEF file format
================
```

     - NDEF message.
       See :ref:`nrf:ug_nfc_ndef`.

Compared to a raw NDEF message, the NDEF file adds one additional field.
This field is called NLEN and is required for an NDEF file.

> It encodes the total length of the NDEF message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to a raw NDEF message, the NDEF file adds the mandatory NLEN field.
This field encodes the total length of the NDEF message.

.. note::
   
   The NDEF file is required only when you implement the read-write NDEF tag mode or the raw ISO-DEP tag mode.
   The read-only NDEF tag mode does not require it.
```

.. _t4t_mode_selection:

Choosing an emulation mode

> **************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Configuration
*************

Follow the information in this section to enable the library for your project.

.. _t4t_mode_selection:

Choosing an emulation mode
==========================
```

.. list-table:: Emulation mode comparison
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Mode
     - Payload function
     - Buffer content
     - Length argument
     - Key callback events
     - Typical use case
   * - Read-only NDEF tag
     - :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`
     - NDEF message
     - Encoded message size
     - :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_ON`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_OFF`, and :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_READ`
     - Static content, such as a URL or text, that readers cannot overwrite
   * - Read-write NDEF tag
     - :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set`
     - NDEF file (NLEN + message)
     - Buffer capacity
     - :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_ON`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_OFF`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_READ`, and :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED`
     - Tags that a smartphone can reprogram (for example, with NFC Tools)
   * - Raw ISO-DEP
     - Not used (skip payload setup)
     - Not applicable
     - Not applicable
     - :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_ON`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_OFF`, :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_DATA_IND`, and :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_DATA_TRANSMITTED`

>      - Custom ISO-DEP protocols that do not use NDEF tag emulation

Reviewer: These lines were moved up. Remove them from here.

If you are new to NFC tag emulation, start with read-only NDEF tag mode.
It requires the least setup: encode an NDEF message, pass it to :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`, and start emulation.

> Because the library never modifies the buffer, it can reside in flash memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Choosing read-only NDEF tag mode
--------------------------------

Start with the read-only NDEF tag mode if you are new to NFC tag emulation.

This mode requires the least setup:

1. Encode an NDEF message.
2. Pass the message to :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`.
3. Start the emulation.

Because the library never modifies the buffer, it can reside in flash memory.

```

Use read-write NDEF tag mode when an external reader must be able to update the tag content.
This mode requires a RAM buffer that remains valid for the entire duration of the emulation, initial content in NDEF file format (see :ref:`t4t_format`), and handling of :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED` in the callback.

> See :ref:`t4t_read_write`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Choosing read-write NDEF tag mode
---------------------------------

Use read-write NDEF tag mode when an external reader must be able to update the tag content.

This mode requires the following elements:

* A RAM buffer that remains valid for the entire duration of the emulation.
* Initial content in the NDEF file format (see :ref:`t4t_format`).
* Handling of :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED` in the callback.

See :ref:`t4t_read_write`.
```
Is it feasible for you to add a setup example here?

> Use raw ISO-DEP mode only when you need full control over the APDU exchange and do not want the library to emulate an NDEF tag file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Choosing raw ISO-DEP tag mode
-----------------------------

Use the raw ISO-DEP mode only when you need full control over the APDU exchange and do not want the library to emulate an NDEF tag file system.
```
Is it feasible for you to add a setup example here?

The following example shows a minimal end-to-end read-only setup:

.. code-block:: c

   static void nfc_callback(void *context, nfc_t4t_event_t event,
			    const uint8_t *data, size_t data_length,
			    uint32_t flags)
   {
	   ARG_UNUSED(context);
	   ARG_UNUSED(data);
	   ARG_UNUSED(flags);
   }

   int start_nfc_tag(const uint8_t *ndef_msg, size_t ndef_len)
   {
	   int err;

	   err = nfc_t4t_setup(nfc_callback, NULL);
	   if (err) {
		   return err;
	   }

	   err = nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set(ndef_msg, ndef_len);
	   if (err) {
		   return err;
	   }

	   return nfc_t4t_emulation_start();

>    }

Reviewer: These lines were moved down. Remove them from here.

> .. _t4t_programming:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _t4t_configuring:
```

> Programming a tag

Reviewer 3: Why the heading of this section is "Programming a tag"? In my mind 'programming' of tag is something that is done by a mobile phone using NFC tools by executing write operation.

May be say "Configuring a tag" or "Setting up a tag"?

Author: The same section is present in t2t tag doc: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrfxlib/blob/main/nfc/doc/type_2_tag.rst, so I use the same reference.
@MarGasiorek should it be changed?

Reviewer 2: I agree with @omkar3141, these steps are used for set up NFC tag to.
I see reference in the `T2T` documentation and there also need to change the paragraph name.

> *****************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring tag emulation
=========================
```

> If you use the supplied library, you do not need to understand the :ref:`t4t_format` section to get started with read-only mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the supplied library, you do not need to apply the :ref:`t4t_format` to get started with the read-only mode.
```

> To emulate a Type 4 Tag, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To emulate a Type 4 Tag using one of the modes, complete the following steps:
```

> 1. Implement a callback function to handle events from the Type 4 Tag library, then register it by calling :c:func:`nfc_t4t_setup`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Implement a callback function to handle events from the Type 4 Tag library:
```

   .. code-block:: c

      int err;
      /* Callback for NFC events */
      static void nfc_callback(void *context,
			       nfc_t4t_event_t event,
			       const uint8_t *data,
			       size_t data_length,
			       uint32_t flags)
      {
	      switch (event) {
	      case NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_ON:
		      /* NFC field detected */
		      break;
	      case NFC_T4T_EVENT_FIELD_OFF:
		      /* NFC field removed */
		      break;

> 	      case NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_READ:
> 		      /* NDEF data has been read */
> 		      break;

Reviewer 3: Since this section that gives overview about how to configure a tag peripheral, may be  also include `NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED` for completeness?

```suggestion
	      case NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_READ:
		      /* NDEF data has been read */
		      break;
		  case NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED:
		      /* NDEF data has been updated by external device */
              break;
```

Author: I specifically do not included this event as example is for `read-only mode` tag, and this event is not needed.
Another section is related to `read-write mode` tag

	      default:
		      break;
	      }
      }

>       /* Set up NFC and register the application callback for NFC events. */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Register the function by calling :c:func:`nfc_t4t_setup`:
  
   .. code-block:: c
       
      /* Set up NFC and register the application callback for NFC events. */
```
(and the rest of the code)

      err = nfc_t4t_setup(nfc_callback, NULL);
      if (err) {
	      printk("Cannot set up NFC T4T library!\n");
	      return err;
      }

#. Configure the tag data.

>    The payload function that you call determines the emulation mode (see :ref:`t4t_mode_selection`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The payload function that you call determines the emulation mode (see :ref:`t4t_mode_selection`):
```

>    * For read-only NDEF tag emulation, use :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For the read-only NDEF tag emulation, use :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`.
```

     Pass a buffer that contains the NDEF message and its length (see :ref:`nrf:ug_nfc_ndef`).
     The library adds the NDEF file structure internally, so you do not need to add the NLEN field.

     .. code-block:: c

        uint8_t ndef_msg_buf[256];
        uint32_t len;

        /* Encode the NDEF message into ndef_msg_buf and set len to the encoded size. */

        /* Set the encoded message as the NFC payload. */
        err = nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set(ndef_msg_buf, len);
        if (err) {
        	printk("Cannot set payload!\n");
        	return err;
        }

>    * For read-write NDEF tag emulation, use :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For the read-write NDEF tag emulation, use :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set`.
```

     See :ref:`t4t_read_write` for details.

>    * For raw ISO-DEP mode, skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For the raw ISO-DEP mode, skip this step.
```

     The library delivers all APDUs through the callback as :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_DATA_IND` events.
     The application must respond by calling :c:func:`nfc_t4t_response_pdu_send`.

#. Activate the NFC tag so that it starts sensing the NFC field and responds when a reader is present:

   .. code-block:: c

      /* Start sensing NFC field. */
      err = nfc_t4t_emulation_start();
      if (err) {
           printk("Cannot start emulation!\n");
           return err;
      }

The selected emulation mode takes effect when you call :c:func:`nfc_t4t_emulation_start`.

> Configure the payload before you start emulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Configure the payload.

You can now start the selected emulation by calling :c:func:`nfc_t4t_emulation_start`.
```

.. _t4t_read_write:

Read-write NDEF tag emulation

> *****************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring read-write NDEF tag data
------------------------------------
```
(to match the phrasing from the step above)

> To allow an external reader to overwrite the NDEF content, configure the tag in read-write mode instead of read-only mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow an external reader to overwrite the NDEF content, configure the tag in the read-write mode instead of the read-only mode.
```

> Call :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set` instead of :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means calling :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set` instead of :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set`.
```

The library handles read and update procedures internally.
The application provides the buffer and responds to update events.

Complete the following steps before calling :c:func:`nfc_t4t_emulation_start`.

> See :ref:`t4t_configuring` for callback registration and for starting emulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the following steps when you are :ref:`t4t_configuring`, before calling :c:func:`nfc_t4t_emulation_start`:
```

1. Allocate a writable buffer for the NDEF file.
   The buffer must remain valid for the entire lifetime of the emulation.
   Its size defines the maximum NDEF file size, including the 2-byte NLEN field.

   .. code-block:: c

      static uint8_t ndef_file_buf[1024]; /* Buffer for the NDEF file. */

#. Prepare the initial NDEF file content.

>    Unlike read-only mode, the buffer must already contain a valid NDEF file (see :ref:`t4t_format`): a 2-byte NLEN field followed by the NDEF message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The buffer must contain a valid NDEF file (see :ref:`t4t_format`): a 2-byte NLEN field followed by the NDEF message.
```
Is it really worth mentioning the read-only mode here? We already state the read-only mode does not require the NDEF file, so I find this a bit repetitive here.

Author: yeah, I will deleted it

>    Encode the NDEF message in the area after NLEN, then write the message size to NLEN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This means encoding the NDEF message in the area after NLEN, then writing the message size to NLEN.
```

   When using the |NCS|, you can use the :ref:`nrf:nfc_t4t_ndef_file_readme` library:

   .. code-block:: c

      uint32_t ndef_size = nfc_t4t_ndef_file_msg_size_get(sizeof(ndef_file_buf));

      /* Encode the NDEF message after the NLEN field. */
      err = nfc_ndef_uri_msg_encode(NFC_URI_HTTP_WWW, url, url_len,
				    nfc_t4t_ndef_file_msg_get(ndef_file_buf),
				    &ndef_size);
      if (err) {
	      return err;
      }

      /* Write the NLEN field to complete the NDEF file. */
      err = nfc_t4t_ndef_file_encode(ndef_file_buf, &ndef_size);
      if (err) {
	      return err;
      }

#. Register the buffer for read-write emulation.

>    Pass the full buffer capacity, not the current NDEF file size, to :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This means passing the full buffer capacity to :c:func:`nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set` (not the current NDEF file size):
```

   .. code-block:: c

      err = nfc_t4t_ndef_rwpayload_set(ndef_file_buf, sizeof(ndef_file_buf));
      if (err) {
	      printk("Cannot set payload!\n");
	      return err;
      }

#. Extend the callback to handle write events.
   When a reader updates the NDEF file, the library signals :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED`.
   The ``data_length`` parameter contains the current value of the NLEN field.
   A non-zero value indicates that the write operation has completed and that the buffer contains the updated NDEF file.
   The library may also signal this event with ``data_length`` set to zero while the reader erases the file at the start of an update.

   .. code-block:: c

      case NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED:
	      if (data_length > 0) {
		      /* The NDEF file was updated; ndef_file_buf contains the new content.
		       * Persist or process the updated data here.
		       */
	      }

> 	      break;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: c

      case NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED:
	      if (data_length > 0) {
		      /* The NDEF file was updated; ndef_file_buf contains the new content.
		       * Persist or process the updated data here.
		       */
	      }
	      break;
   
   When a reader updates the NDEF file, the library signals :c:enumerator:`NFC_T4T_EVENT_NDEF_UPDATED`.
   The ``data_length`` parameter contains the current value of the NLEN field.
   A non-zero value indicates that the write operation has completed and that the buffer contains the updated NDEF file.
   The library may also signal this event with ``data_length`` set to zero while the reader erases the file at the start of an update.

```

After you start emulation with :c:func:`nfc_t4t_emulation_start`, the tag accepts write operations from NFC reader devices, such as the NFC Tools mobile application.

> See the :ref:`nrf:writable_ndef_msg` sample for a complete application that stores updated NDEF files in flash.

Reviewer: This maybe should go under the optional section from the template? If yes, move it to _after_ Read-only implementation template.

```suggestion
Samples using the library
*************************

See the :ref:`nrf:writable_ndef_msg` sample for a complete application that stores updated NDEF files in flash.
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a section here for the complete code example for read-only mode that can be used as a template:

```suggestion

Read-only implementation template
=================================

The following example shows a minimal end-to-end read-only setup that you can use as a template for your own implementation:

.. code-block:: c

   static void nfc_callback(void *context, nfc_t4t_event_t event,
			    const uint8_t *data, size_t data_length,
			    uint32_t flags)
   {
	   ARG_UNUSED(context);
	   ARG_UNUSED(data);
	   ARG_UNUSED(flags);
   }

   int start_nfc_tag(const uint8_t *ndef_msg, size_t ndef_len)
   {
	   int err;

	   err = nfc_t4t_setup(nfc_callback, NULL);
	   if (err) {
		   return err;
	   }

	   err = nfc_t4t_ndef_staticpayload_set(ndef_msg, ndef_len);
	   if (err) {
		   return err;
	   }

	   return nfc_t4t_emulation_start();
   }
```
